
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# rEcl

The goal of `rEcl` is to serve as a R wrapper of the class
`EclBinaryParser`, written in Python, by [Konstantin Sermyagin](). The
class converts the reservoir simulation output files generated by
Eclipse from binary to dataframes.

## Installation

For the moment, `rEcl` is only available through Github. Once is
completed it will be submitted to CRAN.

## Requirements

  - R 3.5.3
  - Rtools 3.5
  - RStudio 1.2+. *I used RStudio preview 1.2.1327 for the development
    of the package.*
  - Python Anaconda3-2018.12-Windows-x86\_64
  - Conda environment 3.6 with pandas and numpy installed. *I called
    this environment* `pyres`

## Files used for testing

For testing `rEcl` and `EclBinaryParser` I used the output binary files
from the reservoir simulation of the Volve field.

    VOLVE_2016.INIT
    VOLVE_2016.RSSPEC
    VOLVE_2016.SMSPEC
    VOLVE_2016.UNSMRY

You can find a copy of these files in this repository under
`rEcl/inst/python/volve` but the package will not install them. You will
have to copy these files manually. In the future, I plan to download the
files directly from Zenodo or Google drive, mainly, because these files
are too big for an R package.

## Functions for the class EclBinaryParser

  - `get_dimens`
  - `is_dual`
  - `get_actnum`
  - `get_seqnum_dates`
  - `read_prop_array`
  - `read_prop_time`
  - `read_vectors`

### New functions

  - `get_vectors_shape`: get the shape or dimensions of the vectors
    dataframe
  - `get_vector_names`: get the names of all the vectors
  - `get_vector_column`: get the values for a vector-column
